<pre class='metadata'>
Title:  <code>polymorphic_value</code>: A polymorphic value-type for C++
Shortname: P0201R6
URL: https://wg21.link/P0201
Revision: 1
Audience: LEWG
Status: P
Group: WG21
Issue Tracking: GitHub https://github.com/jbcoe/polymorphic_value/issues
!Source: <a href="https://github.com/jbcoe/polymorphic_value/documentation/p1950.md">github.com/jbcoe/polymorphic_value/documentation/p0201.md</a>
No Abstract: yes
Markup Shorthands: markdown yes
Markup Shorthands: biblio yes
Editor: Jonathan B. Coe, jonathanbcoe@gmail.com
Editor: Antony Peacock, ant.peacock@gmail.com
Editor: Sean Parent, sparent@adobe.com
</pre>

## Change history

Changes in P0201R6

* Further clarifications to formal wording.

* Allocator support.

* `constexpr` support.

Changes in P0201R5

* Make constructor of `default_copy` `noexcept` and `constexpr`.

* Clarifications to formal wording.

Changes in P0201R4

* Clarify authors' agreement with LEWG design changes.

* Add wording to clarify meaning of custom copier and deleter.

* Make constructors explicit and remove converting assignment.

* Add a second template parameter to `make_polymorphic_value` to facilitate
  construction of objects of derived classes.

Changes in P0201R3

* Add rationale for absence of allocator support.

Changes in P0201R2

* Change name to `polymorphic_value`.

* Remove `operator <<`.

* Add construction and assignment from values.

* Use `std::default_delete`.

* Rename `std::default_copier` to `std::default_copy`.

* Add notes on empty state and pointer constructor.

* Add `bad_polymorphic_value_construction` exception when static and dynamic
  type of pointee mismatch and no custom copier or deleter are supplied.

* Add clarifying note to say that a small object optimisation is allowed.

Changes in P0201R1

* Change name to `indirect`.

* Remove `static_cast`, `dynamic_cast` and `const_cast` as `polymorphic_value` is
  modelled on a value not a pointer.

* Add `const` accessors which return `const` references/pointers.

* Remove pointer-accessor `get`.

* Remove specialization of `propagate_const`.

* Amended authorship and acknowledgements.

* Added support for custom copiers and custom deleters.

* Removed hash and comparison operators.

## TL;DR

Add a class template, `polymorphic_value<T>`, to the standard library to support
polymorphic objects with value-like semantics.

## Introduction

The class template, `polymorphic_value`, confers value-like semantics on a
free-store allocated object.  A `polymorphic_value<T>` may hold an object of a
class publicly derived from T, and copying the `polymorphic_value<T>` will copy
the object of the derived type.

## Motivation: Composite objects

Use of components in the design of object-oriented class hierarchies can aid
modular design as components can be potentially re-used as building-blocks for
other composite classes.

We can write a simple composite object formed from two components as follows:

```cpp

// Simple composite
class CompositeObject_1 {
  Component1 c1_;
  Component2 c2_;

  public:
  CompositeObject_1(const Component1& c1,
                    const Component2& c2) :
                    c1_(c1), c2_(c2) {}

  void foo() { c1_.foo(); }
  void bar() { c2_.bar(); }
};

```

The composite object can be made more flexible by storing pointers to objects
allowing it to take derived components in its constructor.  (We store pointers
to the components rather than references so that we can take ownership of
them).

```cpp

// Non-copyable composite with polymorphic components (BAD)
class CompositeObject_2 {
  IComponent1* c1_;
  IComponent2* c2_;

  public:
  CompositeObject_2(IComponent1* c1,
                    IComponent2* c2) :
                    c1_(c1), c2_(c2) {}

  void foo() { c1_->foo(); }
  void bar() { c2_->bar(); }

  CompositeObject_2(const CompositeObject_2&) = delete;
  CompositeObject_2& operator=(const CompositeObject_2&) = delete;

  CompositeObject_2(CompositeObject_2&& o) : c1_(o.c1_), c2_(o.c2_) {
    o.c1_ = nullptr;
    o.c2_ = nullptr;
  }

  CompositeObject_2& operator=(CompositeObject_2&& o) {
    delete c1_;
    delete c2_;
    c1_ = o.c1_;
    c2_ = o.c2_;
    o.c1_ = nullptr;
    o.c2_ = nullptr;
  }

  ~CompositeObject_2()
  {
    delete c1_;
    delete c2_;
  }
};

```

`CompositeObject_2`'s constructor API is unclear without knowing that the class
takes ownership of the objects. We are forced to explicitly suppress the
compiler-generated copy constructor and copy assignment operator to avoid
double-deletion of the components `c1_` and `c2_`. We also need to write a move
constructor and move assignment operator.

Using `unique_ptr` makes ownership clear and saves us writing or deleting
compiler generated functions:

```cpp

// Non-copyable composite with polymorphic components
class CompositeObject_3 {
  std::unique_ptr<IComponent1> c1_;
  std::unique_ptr<IComponent2> c2_;

  public:
  CompositeObject_3(std::unique_ptr<IComponent1> c1,
                    std::unique_ptr<IComponent2> c2) :
                    c1_(std::move(c1)), c2_(std::move(c2)) {}

  void foo() { c1_->foo(); }
  void bar() { c2_->bar(); }
};

```

The design of `CompositeObject_3` is good unless we want to copy the object.

We can avoid having to define our own copy constructor by using shared
pointers.  As `shared-ptr`'s copy constructor is shallow, we need to modify the
component pointers to be pointers-to `const` to avoid introducing shared mutable
state [S.Parent].

```cpp

// Copyable composite with immutable polymorphic components class
class CompositeObject_4 {
  std::shared_ptr<const IComponent1> c1_;
  std::shared_ptr<const IComponent2> c2_;

  public:
  CompositeObject_4(std::shared_ptr<const IComponent1> c1,
                    std::shared_ptr<const IComponent2> c2) :
                    c1_(std::move(c1)), c2_(std::move(c2)) {}

  void foo() { c1_->foo(); }
  void bar() { c2_->bar(); }
};

```

`CompositeObject_4` has polymorphism and compiler-generated destructor, copy,
move and assignment operators. As long as the components are not mutated, this
design is good. If non-const functions of components are used then this won't
compile.

Using `polymorphic_value` a copyable composite object with polymorphic
components can be written as:

```cpp

// Copyable composite with mutable polymorphic components
class CompositeObject_5 {
  std::polymorphic_value<IComponent1> c1_;
  std::polymorphic_value<IComponent2> c2_;

  public:
  CompositeObject_5(std::polymorphic_value<IComponent1> c1,
                    std::polymorphic_value<IComponent2> c2) :
                    c1_(std::move(c1)), c2_(std::move(c2)) {}

  void foo() { c1_->foo(); }
  void bar() { c2_->bar(); }
};

```

The component `c1_` can be constructed from an instance of any class that
inherits from `IComponent1`.  Similarly, `c2_` can be constructed from an
instance of any class that inherits from `IComponent2`.

`CompositeObject_5` has a compiler-generated destructor, copy constructor, move
constructor, assignment operator and move assignment operator. All of these
compiler-generated functions will behave correctly.

## Deep copies

To allow correct copying of polymorphic objects, `polymorphic_value` uses the
copy constructor of the owned derived-type object when copying a base type
`polymorphic_value`.  Similarly, to allow correct destruction of polymorphic
component objects, `polymorphic_value` uses the destructor of the owned
derived-type object in the destructor of a base type `polymorphic_value`.

The requirements of deep-copying can be illustrated by some simple test code:

```cpp

// GIVEN base and derived classes.
class Base { virtual void foo() const = 0; };
class Derived : public Base { void foo() const override {} };

// WHEN a polymorphic_value to base is formed from a derived object
polymorphic_value<Base> poly(Derived());
// AND the polymorphic_value to base is copied.
auto poly_copy = poly;

// THEN the copy owns a distinct object
assert(&*poly != &*poly_copy);
// AND the copy owns a derived type.
assert(dynamic_cast<Derived*>(*&poly_copy));

```

Note that while deep-destruction of a derived class object from a base class
pointer can be performed with a virtual destructor, the same is not true for
deep-copying. `C++` has no concept of a virtual copy constructor and we are not
proposing its addition.  The class template `shared_ptr` already implements
deep-destruction without needing virtual destructors; deep-destruction and
deep-copying can be implemented using type-erasure [Impl].

## Pointer constructor

`polymorphic_value` can be constructed from a pointer and optionally a copier
and/or deleter. The `polymorphic_value` constructed in this manner takes
ownership of the pointer. This constructor is potentially dangerous as a
mismatch in the dynamic and static type of the pointer will result in
incorrectly synthesized copiers and deleters, potentially resulting in slicing
when copying and incomplete deletion during destruction.

```cpp
class Base { /* functions and members */ };
class Derived : public Base { /* functions and members */ };

Derived* d = new Derived();
Base* p = d; // static type and dynamic type differ
polymorphic_value<Base> poly(p);

// This copy will have been made using Base's copy constructor.
polymorphic_value<Base> poly_copy = poly;

// Destruction of poly and poly_copy uses Base's destructor.
```

While this is potentially error prone, we have elected to trust users with the
tools they are given. `shared_ptr` and `unique_ptr` have similar constructors
and issues.  There are more constructors for `polymorphic_value` of a less
expert-friendly nature that do not present such dangers including a factory
function `make_polymorphic_value`.

Static analysis tools can be written to find cases where static and dynamic
types for pointers passed in to `polymorphic_value` constructors are not
provably identical.

If the user has not supplied a custom copier or deleter, an exception
`bad_polymorphic_value_construction` is thrown from the pointer-constructor if
the dynamic and static types of the pointer argument do not agree.
In cases where the user has supplied a custom copier and deleter it is assumed
that they will do so to avoid slicing and incomplete destruction: a class
heirarchy with a custom `Clone` function and virtual destructor would make use
of `Clone` in a user-supplied copier.

## Empty state

`polymorphic_value` presents an empty state as it is desirable for it to be
cheaply constructed and then later assigned.  In addition, it may not be
possible to construct the `T` of a `polymorphic_value<T>` if it is an abstract
class (a common intended use pattern).  While permitting an empty state will
necessitate occasional checks for `null`, `polymorphic_value` is intended to
replace the uses of pointers or smart pointers where such checks are also
necessary. The benefits of default constructability (use in vectors and maps)
outweigh the costs of a possible empty state.

A nullable `polymorphic_value<T>` could be mimicked with `std::optional<polymorphic_value<T>>` 
but this is verbose and would require partial template specialization of `std::optional` 
to avoid the overhead that would be incurred by a nullable `polymorphic_value`.  But perhaps
the most unfortunate side effect of this approach is that to access the underlying `T`
the `std::optional` must be dereferenced to get to the `polymorphic_value`, which then requires
a second dereference to get to the underlying `T`.  This access pattern is undesirable. 

## Lack of hashing and comparisons

For a given user-defined type, `T`, there are multiple strategies to make
`polymorphic_value<T>` hashable and comparable.  Without requiring additional
named member functions on the type, `T`, or mandating that `T` has virtual
functions and RTTI, the authors do not see how `polymorphic_value` can
generically support hashing or comparisons. Incurring a cost for functionality
that is not required goes against the 'pay for what you use' philosophy of
`C++`.

For a given user-defined type `T` the user is free to specialize
`std::hash` and implement comparison operators for `polymorphic_value<T>`.

## Custom copiers and deleters

The resource management performed by `polymorphic_value` - copying and
destruction of the managed object - can be customized by supplying a _copier_
and _deleter_.  If no copier or deleter is supplied then a default copier or
deleter may be used. 

A custom copier and deleter are _not_ required, if no custom copier and deleter
are provided then the copy constructor and destructor of the managed object 
will be used.

The default deleter is already defined by the standard library and used by
`unique_ptr`.

We define the default copier in technical specifications below.

## Allocator Support

Previous revisions of this paper did not support allocators.  However, support
is desirable as it offers an opportunity to mitigate the cost of allocations.
There is existing precedence for allocator support of types in the memory
management library; `std::shared_ptr` supports allocators via 
`std::allocate_shared`, [M. Knejp] suggested the introduction of 
`std::allocate_unique` to support allocator use with `std::unique_ptr`.

`polymorphic_value` internally uses type-erased to create an internal control 
block object responsible for cloning itself and the actual type derived from `T`.  
It is possible to provide different types of control blocks to support allocation
from multiple sources [Impl].

Memory management for `polymorphic_value` can be fully controlled via the 
`allocate_polymorphic_value` function which allows passing in an allocator
to control the source of memory.  Custom copier and deleter then use the
allocator for allocations and deallocations.

## Design changes from `cloned_ptr`

The design of `polymorphic_value` is based upon `cloned_ptr` (from an early
revision of this paper) and modified following advice from LEWG. The authors
(who unreservedly agree with the design direction suggested by LEWG) would
like to make explicit the cost of these design changes.

`polymorphic_value<T>` has value-like semantics: copies are deep and `const` is
propagated to the owned object. The first revision of this paper presented
`cloned_ptr<T>` which had mixed pointer/value semantics: copies are deep but
`const` is not propagated to the owned object. `polymorphic_value` can be built
from `cloned_ptr` and `propagate_const` but there is no way to remove `const`
propagation from `polymorphic_value`.

As `polymorphic_value` is a value, `dynamic_pointer_cast`,
`static_pointer_cast` and `const_pointer_cast` are not provided.  If a
`polymorphic_value` is constructed with a custom copier or deleter, then there
is no way for a user to implement cast operations like those that are provided
by the standard for `std::shared_ptr`.

## No implicit conversions

Following design feedback, `polymorphic_value`'s constructors have been made
explicit so that surprising implicit conversions cannot take place. Any
conversion to a `polymorphic_value` must be explicitly requested by user-code.

The converting assignment operators that were present in earlier drafts have
also been removed.

For a base class, `BaseClass`, and derived class, `DerivedClass`, the
converting assignment

```cpp
polymorphic_value<DerivedClass> derived;
polymorphic_value<Base> base = derived;
```

is no longer valid, the conversion must be made explicit:

```cpp
polymorphic_value<DerivedClass> derived;
auto base = polymorphic_value<Base>(derived);
```

The removal of converting assigments makes `make_polymorphic_value` slightly
more verbose to use:

```cpp
polymorphic_value<Base> base = make_polymorphic_value<DerivedClass>(args);
```

is not longer valid and must be written as

```cpp
auto base = polymorphic_value<Base>(make_polymorphic_value<DerivedClass>(args));
```

This is somewhat cumbersome so `make_polymorphic_value` has been modified to
take an optional extra template argument allowing users to write

```cpp
polymorphic_value<Base> base = make_polymorphic_value<Base, DerivedClass>(args);
```

The change from implicit to explicit construction is deliberately conservative.
One can change explicit constructors into implicit constructors without
breaking code (other than SFINAE checks), the reverse is not true. Similarly,
converting assignments could be added non-disruptively but not so readily
removed.

## Impact on the standard

This proposal is a pure library extension. It requires additions to be made to
the standard library header `<memory>`.

## Technical specifications

Add the following entry to [tab:support.ft]

|Macro Name|Value|Header(s)|
|:-:|:-:|:-:|
|`__cpp_lib_polymorphic_value`|`xxxxxxL`|`<memory>`|

## Additions in [memory.syn] 20.2.2:

```
// [indirect.value], class template indirect_value
template <class T> struct default_copy; 
template <class T> struct copier_traits;

template <class T> class polymorphic_value;

template <class T, class ...Ts> 
  constexpr polymorphic_value<T> make_polymorphic_value(Ts&& ...ts); 

template <class T, class A = std::allocator<T>, class... Ts>
  constexpr polymorphic_value<T> allocate_polymorphic_value(std::allocator_arg_t, A& a, Ts&&... ts); 

template<class T>
  constexpr void swap(polymorphic_value<T>& p, polymorphic_value<T>& u) noexcept;
```


## X.W Class template `copier_traits` [copier.traits]
```
namespace std {
  template <class T>
  struct copier_traits {
    using deleter_type = *see below*;
  };
}
```
<code>using deleter_type = *see below*;</code>
* Type: <code>T::deleter_type</code> if the *qualified-id* <code>T::deleter_type</code> is valid and denotes a type;
    otherwise, <code>void (\*)(U\*)</code> if <code>T</code> is of the form <code>U\* (\*)(V)</code> for types <code>U</code> and <code>V</code>;
    otherwise, there is no member <code>deleter_type</code>.

## X.X Class template `default_copy` [default.copy]

```cpp
namespace std {
template <class T> struct default_copy {
  using deleter_type = default_delete<T>;
  constexpr default_copy() noexcept = default;
  constexpr T* operator()(const T& t) const;
};

} // namespace std
```

The class template `default_copy` [p1950r1] serves as the default copier for the class
template `polymorphic_value`.

```cpp
constexpr T* operator()(const T& t) const;
```

* Effects:  Equivalent to: `return new T(t);`

## X.Y Class `bad_polymorphic_value_construction` [bad_polymorphic_value_construction]

```cpp
namespace std {
class bad_polymorphic_value_construction : public exception
{
  public:
    bad_polymorphic_value_construction() noexcept = default;

    const char* what() const noexcept override;
};
}
```

Objects of type `bad_polymorphic_value_construction` are thrown to report
invalid construction of a `polymorphic_value`.

```cpp
const char* what() const noexcept override;
```

* Returns: An implementation-defined NTBS.

## X.Z Class template `polymorphic_value` [polymorphic_value]

### X.Z.1 Class template `polymorphic_value` general [polymorphic_value.general]

A `polymorphic_value` is an object that manages the lifetime of an owned object.
A `polymorphic_value` object may own objects of different types at different points in its
lifetime. A `polymorphic_value` object is empty if it has no owned object.
`polymorphic_value` implements value semantics: the owned object (if any) is
copied or destroyed when the `polymorphic_value` is copied or destroyed.
Copying and destruction of the owned object can be customized by supplying a
copier and a deleter, respectively.

The template parameter `T` of `polymorphic_value<T>` shall be a non-union class
type; otherwise the program is ill-formed.
The template parameter `T` of `polymorphic_value<T>` may be an incomplete type.

A copier and deleter are said to be _present_ if and only if a `polymorphic_value`
object is constructed from a non-null pointer, or from a `polymorphic_value`
object where a copier and a deleter are present.

[Note 1: Implementations are encouraged to avoid the use of dynamic memory for
ownership of small objects. - end note]

### X.Z.2 Class template `polymorphic_value` synopsis [polymorphic_value.synopsis]

```cpp
namespace std {
template <class T> class polymorphic_value {
 public:
  using element_type = T;

  // Constructors
  constexpr polymorphic_value() noexcept;
  
  constexpr polymorphic_value(nullptr_t) noexcept;

  template <class U> constexpr explicit polymorphic_value(U&& u);

  template <class U, class C=default_copy<U>,
            class D=typename copier_traits<C>::deleter_type>
    constexpr explicit polymorphic_value(U* p, C c=C(), D d=D());

  constexpr polymorphic_value(const polymorphic_value& p);
  template <class U>
    constexpr explicit polymorphic_value(const polymorphic_value<U>& p);
  
  constexpr polymorphic_value(polymorphic_value&& p) noexcept;
  template <class U>
    constexpr explicit polymorphic_value(polymorphic_value<U>&& p);

  // Destructor
  constexpr ~polymorphic_value();

  // Assignment
  constexpr polymorphic_value& operator=(const polymorphic_value& p);
  constexpr polymorphic_value& operator=(polymorphic_value&& p) noexcept;

  // Modifiers
  constexpr void swap(polymorphic_value& p) noexcept;

  // Observers
  constexpr const T& operator*() const;
  constexpr T& operator*();
  constexpr const T* operator->() const;
  constexpr T* operator->();
  constexpr explicit operator bool() const noexcept;

  // polymorphic_value specialized algorithms
  friend constexpr void swap(polymorphic_value& p, polymorphic_value& u) noexcept;
};

// polymorphic_value creation
template <class T, class U=T, class... Ts>
constexpr polymorphic_value<T> make_polymorphic_value(Ts&&... ts);

template <class T, class U = T, class A = allocator<U>, class... Ts>
constexpr polymorphic_value<T> allocate_polymorphic_value(allocator_arg_t, A& a, Ts&&... ts);

} // end namespace std

```

### X.Z.3 Class template `polymorphic_value` constructors [polymorphic_value.ctor]

```cpp

constexpr polymorphic_value() noexcept;
constexpr polymorphic_value(nullptr_t) noexcept;

```

* Postconditions: `*this` is empty.

```cpp

template <class U> constexpr explicit polymorphic_value(U&& u);

```

Let `V` be `remove_cvref_t<U>`.

* Constraints: `is_convertible_v<V*, T*>` is true. `is_constructible_v<V, U>` is true.

* Preconditions: `V` meets the `Cpp17CopyConstructible` requirements.

* Effects: Constructs a `polymorphic_value` which owns an object of type `V`,
  direct-non-list-initialized with `std::forward<U>(u)`.

* Throws: Any exception thrown by the selected constructor of `V` or
  `bad_alloc` if required storage cannot be obtained.

```cpp
template <class U, class C=default_copy<U>,
          class D=typename copier_traits<C>::deleter_type>
  constexpr explicit polymorphic_value(U* p, C c=C(), D d=D());
```

* Constraints: `is_convertible_v<U*, T*>` is true.

  If the arguments `c` and/or `d` are not supplied, then `C` and/or `D`
  respectively are default constructible types that are not pointer types.

* Preconditions: `C` and `D` meet the `Cpp17CopyConstructible` 
  and `Cpp17Destructible` requirements.

  If `p` is non-null then invoking the expression `c(*p)` returns a 
  non-null `U*` is as if copy constructed from *p. The expression `d(p)`
  is well formed, has well-defined behavior, and does not throw exceptions.
  Where `q=c(*p)`, the expression `d(q)` is well-defined and does 
  not throw exceptions.

* Effects: If `p` is null, creates an empty object otherwise 
  creates an object that owns the object `*p`,  with a copier of
  type C initialized from `std::move(c)` and a deleter of type D
  initialized from `std::move(d)`.

* Throws: `bad_alloc` if required storage cannot be obtained;
  `bad_polymorphic_value_construction` if `is_same_v<C,
  default_copy<U>>`, `is_same_v<D, default_delete<U>>` and
  `typeid(*p)!=typeid(U)` are all `true`.

* Postconditions: If `p` is null, the empty object created has no copier and no deleter.
  Otherwise the object created owns the object `*p` and has a copier and a deleter 
  present, initialized from `std::move(c)` and `std::move(d)` respectively.

```cpp
template <class U, class A>
constexpr explicit polymorphic_value(U* u, std::allocator_arg_t, const A& alloc)
```

* Constraints: `is_convertible_v<U*, T*>` is true.

* Preconditions: `A` meets the Cpp17Allocator requirements.

* Effects: Constructs a polymorphic_value­ that owns the object 'u'.
  Construction shall use a copy of `a` to allocate memory for
  internal use.

* Throws: `bad_alloc` if required storage cannot be obtained;

```cpp
polymorphic_value(const polymorphic_value& pv);
template <class U> constexpr explicit polymorphic_value(const polymorphic_value<U>& pv);
```

* Constraints: For the second constructor, `is_convertible_v<U*, T*>` is true.

* Effects: If `pv` is empty, constructs an empty object. Otherwise
  creates an object that owns a copy of the object managed by `pv`. 
  If a copier and deleter are present in `pv` then 
  the copy is created by the copier in `pv`. Otherwise the copy is created by copy 
  construction of the owned object.  If a copier and deleter are present 
  in `pv` then the copier and deleter of the object constructed 
  are copied from those in `pv` so that they are present and of type 
  `C` and `D` respectively.

* Postconditions:  `bool(*this) == bool(pv)`.

* Throws: Any exception thrown by invocation of the copier, copying the 
  copier and deleter, or `bad_alloc` if required storage cannot be obtained.

```cpp
polymorphic_value(polymorphic_value&& pv) noexcept;
template <class U> constexpr explicit polymorphic_value(polymorphic_value<U>&& pv);
```

* Constraints: For the second constructor, `is_convertible_v<U*, T*>` is true.

* Effects: If `pv` is empty, constructs an empty object. Otherwise the object
  owned by `pv` is transferred to the constructed object. If a copier and deleter
  are present in `pv` then the copier and deleter are transferred to the 
  constructed object so that they are present and of type `C` and `D` respectively.

* Postconditions:  `*this` owns the object previously owned by `pv` (if any). 
  `pv` is empty.

### X.Z.4 Class template `polymorphic_value` destructor [polymorphic_value.dtor]

```cpp
constexpr ~polymorphic_value();
```

* Effects: If a copier `c` and a deleter `d` are present, 
evaluates `d(operator->())` and destroys `c` and `d`. 
Otherwise destroys the owned object (if any) and frees its storage.

### X.Z.5 Class template `polymorphic_value` assignment [polymorphic_value.assignment]

```cpp
constexpr polymorphic_value& operator=(const polymorphic_value& pv);
```

* Effects: Equivalent to `polymorphic_value(pv).swap(*this)`. 
  No effects if an exception is thrown. 

* Throws: Any exception thrown by the copier or `bad_alloc` if required
  storage cannot be obtained.

* Returns: `*this`.

* Postconditions:  The state of `*this` is as if copy constructed from `pv`.

```cpp
constexpr polymorphic_value& operator=(polymorphic_value&& pv) noexcept;
```

* Effects: Equivalent to `polymorphic_value(std::move(pv)).swap(*this)`.

* Returns: `*this`.

* Postconditions: The state `*this` is equivalent to the original state of `pv`. 

### X.Z.6 Class template `polymorphic_value` modifiers [polymorphic_value.modifiers]

```cpp
constexpr void swap(polymorphic_value& p) noexcept;
```

* Constraints: is_­is_nothrow_swappable­v<C> is true. is_­is_nothrow_swappable­v<D> is true.

* Effects: Invokes swap on the stored pointers and on the stored copiers and deleters of *this and `p`.

### X.Z.7 Class template `polymorphic_value` observers [polymorphic_value.observers]

```cpp
constexpr const T& operator*() const;
constexpr T& operator*();
```

* Preconditions: `bool(*this)` is `true`.

* Returns: A reference to the owned object.

```cpp
constexpr const T* operator->() const;
constexpr T* operator->();
```

* Preconditions: `bool(*this)` is `true`.

* Returns: A pointer to the owned object.

```cpp
explicit operator bool() const noexcept;
```

* Returns: `false` if the `polymorphic_value` is empty, otherwise `true`.

### X.Z.8 Class template `polymorphic_value` creation [polymorphic_value.creation]

```cpp
template <class T, class U=T, class ...Ts> 
constexpr polymorphic_value<T> make_polymorphic_value(Ts&& ...ts);
```

* Constraints: `is_constructible_v<U, Ts...>` is true.

* Preconditions: `U` meets the `Cpp17CopyConstructible` requirements.

* Returns: A `polymorphic_value<T>` owning an object of type `U`
  direct-non-list-initialized with `std::forward<Ts>(ts)...`.

[Note 2: Implementations are encouraged to avoid multiple allocations. - end note]

```cpp
template <class T, class U = T, class A = allocator<U>, class... Ts>
constexpr polymorphic_value<T> allocate_polymorphic_value(allocator_arg_t, A& a, Ts&&... ts);
```

* Constraints: `is_constructible_v<U, Ts...>` is true.

* Preconditions: `U` meets the `Cpp17CopyConstructible` requirements.

* Effects: Constructs a polymorphic_value­ that shall use a copy of
  `a` to allocate memory for internal use.

* Returns: A `polymorphic_value<T>` owning an object of type `U`
  direct-non-list-initialized with `std::forward<Ts>(ts)...`.

### X.Z.9 Class template `polymorphic_value` specialized algorithms [polymorphic_value.spec]

```cpp
friend constexpr void swap(polymorphic_value& p, polymorphic_value& u) noexcept;
```

* Effects: Equivalent to `p.swap(u)`.

## Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank Maciej Bogus, Matthew Calabrese, Casey Carter, 
Germán Diago, Louis Dionne, Bengt Gustafsson, Tom Hudson, Stephan T Lavavej, 
Tomasz Kamiński, David Krauss, Thomas Koeppe, LanguageLawyer, Nevin Liber, 
Nathan Myers, Roger Orr, Geoff Romer, Patrice Roy, Tony van Eerd and 
Ville Voutilainen for suggestions and useful discussion.

The authors would also extend thanks for contributions to the reference 
implementation which has driven the design, including Anthony Williams,
Ed Catmur, and Marcell Kiss.

## References

[N3339] ["A Preliminary Proposal for a Deep-Copying Smart Pointer", W.E.Brown, 2012](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2012/n3339.pdf)

[p1950r1] [indirect_value: A Free-Store-Allocated Value Type For C++](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2020/p1950r1.html)

[P0302r1] ["Removing Allocator support in std::function", Jonathan Wakely](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2020/p1950r1.html)

[M. Knejp] [P0316R0: allocate_unique and allocator_delete](https://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2017/p0316r0.html)

[S.Parent] ["C++ Seasoning", Sean Parent, 2013](https://github.com/sean-parent/sean-parent.github.io/wiki/Papers-and-Presentations)

[Impl] [Reference implementation: polymorphic_value, J.B.Coe](https://github.com/jbcoe/polymorphic_value)

[P0302r1] ["Removing Allocator support in std::function", Jonathan Wakely](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2016/p0302r1.html)